is body language really that important
yes for example when you change the
posture of people who are depressed it
reduces their symptoms tiny tweaks lead
to big changes Dr Amy Cuddy expert on
the Behavioral Science of power Harvard
Professor coined the term power pose the
second most watched Ted Talk of all time
now posture can affect some of the
biggest moments of Our Lives your body
language is betraying you fifty percent
of our first impression is based around
body language so the way that we carry
ourselves really affects your life
because if people feel utterly powerless
they see challenges as threats instead
of opportunities they are less creative
less authentic so that's my mission to
help people feel more powerful and
become more socially Brave and there's
all kinds of ways in which we can fix it
is there a relationship there as well
between our body language and
attractiveness yeah there's research
showing that if you
that body language
and in dating situations how we tell our
stories to ourselves matters as I've
read through your story there was
bullying in your life
it's the worst thing that ever happened
to me I had to leave my job after I'd
worked so hard to get there I almost
decided to die like I'm so afraid of
them still
um
I think this is fascinating I looked at
the back end of our YouTube channel and
it says that since this channel started
69.9 percent of you that watch it
frequently haven't yet hit the Subscribe
button so I have a favor to ask you if
you've ever watched this Channel and
enjoyed the content if you're enjoying
this episode right now please could I
ask a small favor please hit the
Subscribe button helps this channel more
than I can explain and I promise if you
do that to return the favor we will make
this show better and better and better
and better and better that's the promise
I'm willing to make you if you hit the
Subscribe button do we have a deal
[Music]
Amy
there's lots of um myths around body
language and how important it is and you
hear all these phrases about oh 80 of
our communication is non-verbal or 90 I
can't remember the numbers but you hear
all of this stuff
is body language really that important
yes it is important absolutely and and
it it is it probably affects you know
about about half of our impression of
others
our first impression is based around
body language
I'm not maybe it's higher than that but
I would say it's at least 50 body
language isn't just us speaking to
others we're also speaking to ourselves
the way that we carry ourselves is
sending messages back to our our brain
about whether we're safe or unsafe are
we threatened or not threatened are we
you know confident or not confident and
so how do we know that well the the sort
of earliest studies looking at this idea
about
um Body Mind feedback we're focused on
facial expressions
and so we know that there are some
mostly universal expressions of emotion
that are facial and when I say mostly
there is some debate about
um you know whether they're entirely
Universal to every single culture and
exactly which emotions they are but you
have things like happiness and smiling
sadness and crying
um you know widened eyes and surprise
those things are Universal
regardless of where you grew up and what
you were exposed to so if they're
Universal that indicates that they are
hardwired that we're born with some
Association in our brains
so if they're hardwired can you reverse
the direction of that wiring can you can
you tell people to smile and will it
make them happier and so the facial
feedback studies showed that yes indeed
you can uh that you you know and the
first ones were were smiling and and
mood uh so you know they had people some
people hold a pencil between their teeth
in a way that made them smile and others
hold a pencil between their teeth in a
way that didn't make them smile the
people who were in this forced smile
which did cause the contraction of the
muscles around the eyes which which is a
real smile even though it was a fake
smile it's not just your mouth it's your
mouth and your eyes they were in a
better mood their mood lifted they liked
the experimenter better they liked
anything put in front of them better
they felt happier than the people who
were not in this forced smile it was
then expanded to look at some of these
other Universal facial expressions like
crying and sadness
and then
people started to look at things like
movement posture I would say the
earliest work really was on breathing
um you know when we get anxious we
breathe quickly and shallowly
and if you think about
and I'm not sure that you ever had this
experience but if you know you were
called on in class say in high school
and you weren't prepared or you had the
first time you had to give a speech in
front of class you know a lot of
students speak very quickly and you can
tell that their their breathing is
shallow and they're they're breathing
quickly that's that's a fight or flight
response and so
you know can you turn that around
um and and so the the people who started
studying this called this the relaxation
response where they got people to change
their breathing and I'm gonna I'm
oversimplifying this but in essence
you're breathing more slowly and deeply
and that triggers a nervous system
response that makes people feel much
more relaxed and more confident and safe
which impacts performance of their
speech whatever they're doing yes or the
context in which it was first studied
was medicine and trying to get patients
to feel calmer before stressful
procedures
her Benson at Harvard Medical School did
some of that early work I think you know
going back to the 60s and 70s so you
know that was but it wasn't sort of
linked quite to psychology because it
was coming from medicine when you have a
person who is suffering from major
depressive disorder
uh open up open their posture just for a
couple of minutes
and then have them fill out a depression
scale afterwards they are less depressed
when you treat people with PTSD
by teaching them you know yoga poses
that open them up
it it reduces their PTSD symptoms so you
know this is coming from all different
fields of study not just from social
psychology so there's a clear two-way
relationship between my posture and how
I'm feeling and then also how I'm
feeling in my posture which communicates
outwardly to the world about who I am
and exactly I don't know if you know the
answer to this question but it made me
wonder as you were talking do you know
how old language is I actually don't
know the answer I don't know it's like
how old is language
between 150 to 200 000 years old
and how old are humans
okay so we have
about 50 000 years of people not having
sophisticated language and having to
read each other's body language which a
lot of non-human animals are doing all
the time yeah exactly I mean you know
it's it's funny we have these squirrels
in our front yard
um and they're really active and there
are all kinds of body language signals
but also these different kinds of chirps
that they make and of course I was
curious I looked this up you know is are
they do these different chirps mean
different things like certain bird calls
really clearly mean certain things and
the ethologists the animal behavior
Specialists say that in with squirrels
they don't mean specific things but it's
it's still it's it's a body language
signal so even it's not formal language
but but they they still get the sense
that there's something threatening
happening or not
or you know sometimes it's mating
related but they're not as specific as
bird calls which are closer to our
language than say these squirrel chirps
when you did that Ted Talk some 10 years
ago I think from what I read it became
the most viewed Ted Talk of all time in
its moment it's it became second most
viewed
um and it has remained there for a long
time
so it it was never it was never the most
viewed but it certainly went viral
quickly
why why do you think people care so much
about this subject matter
it's funny because you know it still
gets five or ten thousand views a day
and it that's it's 10 years old
and I still get
10 emails a day from strangers who've
just seen it for the first time
thanking me
saying they felt that I was speaking to
them
and
so there must be something Timeless
about it that I that I didn't know I was
tapping into
but I think there was some universal
truth that resonated across people
across cultures and a lot of it was
about
feeling like an imposter I mean that you
know I talked about imposter syndrome
and the feeling like you don't belong
there and it turns out almost everyone
has this imposter experience and in fact
the women who who originally studied
imposter syndrome says she wishes she
had called it the Imposter experience
because syndrome indicates that it's
pathological and it's not it's just it's
so common so what I found you know I I
was getting emails from first generation
you know
um
um uh black college students I was
getting emails from
white males literally Swiss Bankers all
of these different people retired people
um uh 12 year old kids who felt that
they didn't belong there what I think
resonated was first it's okay you're not
the only one who feels that way it's
normal but also there are some things
that you can do to to to get out of
feeling that way and so it very much is
about to me
um people feeling understood I feel like
it's when you
you know you love a song it speaks to
you it it it evokes a certain emotional
response because something about that
song makes you feel connected
and
I think something about the talk did the
same thing it made people feel
understood
um and not alone in their feelings of
powerlessness and not belonging
and it gave them a blueprint as such to
to be more
to feel more powerful yes and something
that was you know didn't require
technology that didn't really require
much of anything
um
to to change the way they felt yes and
what is that blueprint
I feel like there's we know so much more
now than we knew then
then we we were having people adopt
these expansive you know what we call
power poses for a couple of minutes and
looking at how it changed the way they
felt
um you know standing with their hands on
their hips for example or in the victory
pose with their arms up as if they had
just crossed the finish line and won you
know Usain Bolt for example and it
changed the way they felt so that was
the blueprint was was before you go into
this stressful situation you know find a
private space it's funny I said a
bathroom stall I had not scripted that
that's just what came out and so many
people say I stood in a bathroom stall
and um Power pose before the job
interview or before pitching an idea or
something like that uh and and it
changed the way I felt
and so that was the blueprint but I I
feel like the idea of being expansive is
so much more expansive than that
um it's it's the way we walk it's taking
longer strides
um swinging our arms more it's uh it's
talking more slowly it is which is
taking up temporal space it's that
breathing breathing more deeply and more
slowly it's all there are all kinds of
ways in which we can expand
that will change our feeling of agency
of power
not power over others but power over
ourselves or power too
and when that happens it activates what
psychologists call the behavioral
approach system and the approach system
causes us to see challenges not as
threats but as opportunities it causes
us to see other people not as potential
Predators or competitors but as possible
allies and Friends
it makes us more creative because we're
not feeling cognitively limited we have
more of an abundance mindset than a
scarcity mindset we don't feel as
defensive we're more able to trust and I
think maybe most important we're more
likely to act so when we feel powerful
we are more likely to take action not
just on behalf of ourselves but also on
behalf of others so when you look at
research on say bystander intervention
you know when do people step in and help
in emergencies one of the best
predictors is personal feeling
personally powerful when people feel
personally powerful they step in and
help they go hey something's wrong they
don't second guess themselves and think
well maybe I'm not the right person to
help they just do it they step in and
help
so you know it it has it has so that
that feeling of power is linked to so
many other
uh feelings and and sort of aspects of
our mindset that change how we approach
life
so as we expand
and step forward the world expands
so many people listening to this now
will be
unaware that they've been going through
their lives signaling to themselves and
to others a sense of they're in
powerlessness yes
um which is one of the first things that
I I was thinking about when I had was
reading through your work and watching
the videos was that most people don't
even know these are all unknown unknowns
so they're feeling a certain way they're
showing up in a certain way they're on
stage hiding behind the lectern in a
certain way and they have no idea the
profundity of that signal that they're
sending to themselves and others right
what is how do I know that I'm signaling
that to myself and to others what are
the signs I think I ask people to do a
kind of audit of their body of how
they're holding themselves and it's
funny when I when I'm giving a talk and
speaking to a big group of people and I
say you know now check your posture I
can hear everyone immediately moving in
their chairs even if the lights are low
but I say no don't move yet check your
posture because what you think you think
that when you're not the one performing
it your body language doesn't matter
because you again we're thinking we
think of body language as Just One
Direction what we're saying to others
but our body language is always speaking
to us as well so I ask them to think to
pay attention to what is their default
even just seated position are they
holding their shoulders up and forward
collapsing their chest are they wrapping
their hands or arms around their torso
or
powerlessness so like what's the it
really is you know your your limbs are
pulled in your shoulders are pulled
forward your chest is collapsed
um legs might be crossed and ankles
wrapped I think the wrapping of the
ankles matters more than the crossing of
the legs if you watch sports and watch
what's happening what what is the
winning team doing versus the losing
team you really see it I mean you see
you know these big basketball players
who are holding their heads in their
hands and you know leaning forward and
and they they look absolutely defeated
um even though they're they're just as
physically strong as they were five
minutes earlier when things were going
well so watching the body language of
like athletes for example and then
paying attention to what you're doing
yourself I think helps us to become much
more aware of how we're carrying
ourselves but you can do little things
like just when you get up in the morning
you know if you wake up all curled up in
the fetal position which is the most
common sleeping position 40 of people
sleep in the fetal position
and we know that when people wake up in
the fetal position
they are more anxious than people who
don't that is obviously correlational we
don't know the the causal Direction
because it might be that you're anxious
and that's why you're sleeping in the
fetal position nonetheless say you wake
up in the fetal position stretch out you
know into a starfish pose you know be
Usain bold in bed before you put your
feet on the ground on the ground one of
my research assistants said that he
would uh hold one of his hands on his
hip while he brushed his teeth like
little things that like that that sort
of
forced him to spend a little bit of time
expanding
really helped and I hear so many stories
like this people rearrange their desks
so that they have to stretch out a bit
more when they're working instead of you
know working like this over their phone
you know how are you sitting in your car
are you you know really close to the
steering wheel and kind of collapsed or
more open little things like that can
really change the way you feel so I
think it starts with just noticing how
we carry ourselves how we carry
ourselves physically how we speak how we
breathe it's so interesting because I've
got a
a guy friend of mine who is
um
would be the first to say that he's very
low self-esteem he's very disparaging of
himself so when he walks into a room
he'll
insult himself so he'll say sorry I
smile or sorry he'll apologize for
himself take up very little room sit on
the floor
um all the time and all of these things
which um
we've always kind of noticed it but when
you say all of these these things about
people can Contracting when they're they
feel powerless and taking up less space
and being sort of self-disparaging I've
always looked at that behavior in him
and thought I I don't I don't know it's
something deeper I don't know I don't
know what we can do to or he can do to
help himself what would you say to
someone like that who's feels like a you
know I mean like I was saying if you
look at the clinical studies the
research is pretty clear that you know
sort of Body Mind feedback
has significant benefits to people who
are feeling because that sounds like
sort of
unusually low self-esteem right I would
say that's several standard deviations
below the mean if if that's how he
carries himself and speaks about himself
yes so everything you described was I
just saw him
I would say you know and again I'm not a
clinical psychologist but if you look at
the Clinical Psychology literature it
very clearly shows that if you get
people to change the way they carry
themselves they feel better they feel
different
um I think you know I think to me some
of the most compelling work is the work
on combat veterans with post-traumatic
stress disorder who feel utterly broken
and often feel that they their bodies
betrayed them
and
you know are living at home are unable
to keep a job or you know keep a
relationship going
and the research you know there are
researchers who have worked with them
and taught them these you know expansive
yoga poses and the effects are dramatic
it it just makes it restores their sense
of personal power their sense of agency
and you know these are self-reports when
I talk about the behaviors they're
self-reports but the researcher who did
a lot of these studies Emma sepula who's
at Yale says that she would hear from
these people a year later saying I no
longer live at home I have a job I'm so
much happier I'm dating
and it's because of this because of the
expansive yoga poses yeah breathing the
expansive breathing expensive yoga poses
but getting into the practice of doing
that changes their lives
you know I feel strongly that
encouraging people to open up even if
it's when they're alone you know because
sometimes people close up in social
situations because they have you know
complex PTSD they have experienced
trauma and they've or they've been
assaulted they've been harassed
um and they feel that they're protecting
themselves so I think you start at home
alone you start in PRI the privacy of
your own home where you don't feel
threatened
um and then maybe you build it into
these more social situations so instead
of worrying about the impression you're
making on others you think about the
impression you're making on yourself
first that's what matters how we tell
our stories to ourselves matters
100 agree
I've been really compelled by this idea
of what I've been calling the self story
which is kind of what you're describing
there which is
um we all have this kind of story about
who we are and how valuable we are and
what we're good at and what we're
capable of that governs Our Lives yes
and it's written in every small thing we
do that I sat here with um
it's a bit of a different example but I
sat here within a championship boxer and
he was telling me that when he's on the
treadmill at home it's a very different
example when he's on the treadmill at
home if he's told himself he's going to
do seven miles and he gets to six and a
half miles and gets cramped in his leg
he will limp the remaining half a mile
because he doesn't want to want to let
in his own words the demons in and what
he what he's really saying there is this
idea that even though I'm alone and I'm
No One's Gonna know or see I'm gonna
know and I'm gonna write him to myself
story just a new paragraph about who I
am when things get tough yeah and that
and I I thought so much about this
because
um lying kind of links to this in many
ways because lying is this kind of decay
of trust but also lying to yourself so
like making a commitment to yourself
that I'm going to do something and
continually breaking the commitment to
yourself even if nobody knows I think is
just so detrimental to our our
perception of ourselves like it's a
downward spiral of the perception of
ourselves absolutely I I I you know we
we own our narratives and
you know there's research even on
looking at older people
um and physical health outcomes I mean
mortality and and the researchers found
that older people who had more positive
personal narratives about how they got
to where they are in life lived
significantly longer than people who had
these negative narratives even if they
had the same job the same kind of sort
of on the surface they look the same
they controlled for all those
differences and still found that these
the older people with these more
positive personal narratives live longer
again that's correlational but uh it's
you know it's powerful and one of the
things that happens when people feel
powerless is uh that they are less able
to be authentic right so when they when
they present themselves
say they are in a job interview they
don't come across as authentic as
somebody who feels more powerful and
what's interesting is that the body
language associated with sort of lower
authenticity
is sort of on the same Spectrum with the
body language that's associated with
outright deception
right so when people are lying to
somebody else I mean knowingly lying
the body language that matters the most
is not eye contact that's what people
focus that they think eye contact is the
most important signal it's not because
people learn very different things in
different households and cultures
personality differences that change how
people
choose to make eye contact in different
situations
what matters is the asynchrony between
the emotions conveyed with the words and
the emotions conveyed with the body
language so if you're telling a happy
story but you do not look happy your
body language doesn't look happy you
know you don't come across as authentic
if you think about you know being a kid
and maybe you lied to get out of going
to school and you told your parents that
you were sick and you really weren't
you're telling a story that's not true
that's you know supposed to be sad so
you're trying to get the the emotions
right with your words but your body
language is probably betraying you
um you know because you're actually
excited that you're going to sit at home
on the couch and eat chips and watch
reruns or at night rerun is probably a
word that nobody uses anymore but TV
um uh YouTube Tick Tock whatever so
that that those asynchranies are the
same as the asynchronies that you see
when people aren't able to be authentic
and of course in those cases that's not
that the intention is not bad they're
not in any way trying to lie to the
other person in a way they're kind of
lying to themselves
um and then that spills over into not
being able to show an honest expression
of themselves to the other
and people and and the funny thing is
that people
don't can't quite articulate so if
you're an interviewer say in that
situation
it's very hard to articulate what was
off but they know something was off and
they'll say the person didn't seem
authentic but they're not going to say
oh well their words didn't match their
body language yeah they would no because
we you know when people are lying they
can choreograph they can script the
words but it's very hard to choreograph
all the body language to go along with
it it takes up too much cognitive
bandwidth so but it does come across to
other people I think one of the fun
places to watch for this is on Shark
Tank
um is to to watch the the sort of the
body language of these people pitching
and sometimes you have people who come
across at first as like super confident
but the something about the way they
tell their story does not match their
body language and and the Sharks feel
that you see them you see them almost
cringe there's something off and they
don't get the money
and then you might have somebody who is
you know let's say uh doesn't have a
business school education uh doesn't
have as much experience but really
believes in what they're doing and and
knows what they're doing you know yes
I'm not saying that you can be
incompetent you have to be at a certain
level of confidence
but they're able to convey their
authentic conviction and passion about
this project about what they're doing
and the Sharks warm toward them you see
them lean in toward those people and
those people are more likely to be to to
to to to find investors and the thing is
those those signals aren't just
short-term signals those people are also
more likely to stick with it to inspire
other people to uh to be promoted to to
be successful in the long run it's a
real signal that you're picking up on
that you just can't fake and it really
starts with how you tell your story to
yourself is there a relationship there
as well between our body language and
our attractiveness I does my is there a
certain body language that's associated
with me being attractive if I'm single
and I'm like you know I wanna
I want to increase my chances of finding
a mate yeah it's well it's interesting
because you know people I think there
were skepticism about whether women
would be punished for
um using more dominant body language and
which I thought was kind of sad because
it just reinforces The Stereotype but
but there's Recent research showing that
first of all they're not they're not and
I'm not talking about super Alpha body
language I'm talking about body language
that's confident and warm right that
that shows I feel good about myself and
I want to be here and I'm interested in
you that body language is is more more
effective both in the workplace and in
dating situations so people
there was a study that looked at dating
profile pictures on dating apps and both
men and women with more open body
language more confident body language
were seen as more attractive
so I I thought that was that that was
very reassuring and also suggested to me
that we're making some progress if that
was true for for for you know across
genders
so yeah people want to be with somebody
who is confident but not arrogant who is
comfortable in their skin and your body
language conveys that even in a still
picture it conveys that
wow if I am the type of person that is
feels powerless inside of myself I'm
suffering with a variety of a variety of
different reasons
um I know I know that there's as you've
described there's there's things that I
can do to tell a different story to
myself publicly and privately is this is
this a form of practice that one has to
do is this like a yes is there a CIS
like a like I go to the gym and I do
some of my favorite work in social
psychology is on what's called
self-affirmation Theory when people
think of self-affirmation they think of
someone looking in a mirror saying I'm
awesome I'm you know I'm the best I'm
gonna win I'm a winner we kind of know
that when we feel bad about ourselves
saying I'm great doesn't help because
now we just feel like we're lying to
ourselves so we feel bad already and now
we're like well I feel bad and I'm a
liar sounds
exactly so
so
self-affirmation is not that
self-affirmation is this what what these
experiments and there are hundreds of
experiments now in self-affirmation they
have people list the top two or three
values or qualities that make them who
they are like if I took that value or
quality away from you you would say I'm
just no longer myself like you are just
taking a piece of me away
they then have them kind of rank them
and then take the top one and write a
couple of paragraphs one paragraph about
um you know a time when they expressed
it and another maybe about how it felt
to express it that is it that's the
exercise they then have them do do
difficult things like take a difficult
math test for example or do a debate you
know do it be in a debate competition or
or
um whatever something challenging that's
unrelated right so if say I said
um
I value music you know I if if you took
the experience of of Music away from me
I just would not feel like myself and
then I I did a math test
I would do better on the math test
after doing that self-affirmation
exercise I likely I would be likely to
on average people perform better
they also even show decreases in levels
of stress hormones like epinephrine so
the idea is that you're anchoring
yourself in who you are and what you're
doing is reminding yourself that no
matter what happens on that math test
you're still going to be that person
when you walk out and so it that math
test becomes less important which
ironically or paradoxically makes you do
better on it and so I think that's a
really good start is to just spend time
you know kind of journaling about who
are you what do you value but really
what are those qualities that make you
who you are to you not to others not how
would others describe you what removes
you like what really moves you
it's not so interesting I've never heard
that before because a lot of the time
you kind of have to have the two camps
where one campus says look in the mirror
and tell yourself a bunch of lies and
there's a whole industry about yeah
I don't like it yeah and then there's
the other cam which is Maybe
uh I don't know if this is the other
Camp necessarily but it's probably the
school of thought I've always lived in
which is you need to go and build
evidence somehow new evidence about
yourself right like counteracting the
evidence that the limiting evidence or
the limiting beliefs that are standing
in your way yeah it's like
self-perception Theory right if you see
yourself doing it you you become it yeah
and that's just a reflection on the
areas in my life where I was like very
low confidence and how I got from that
place to being higher confidence came
from
straying outside of my comfort zone and
going and doing nothing more
um building evidence that I wasn't going
to die I feel and I that works too I'm
not saying that that self-affirmation is
the only way to do it I I'm much more by
the way in Europe I'm in your Camp I
I get really frustrated with
um it's all your mindset and you just
got to tell yourself that you you you
can create your life you know like how
yeah you know I just there's so much of
that and I feel like it's so confusing
and discouraging for people because they
watch people who they think are doing
that
in short clips and they're like well
there they did it why can't I do it but
but a lot of those people didn't get to
where they are by doing that lots of
people helped them get to where they are
yeah
um or you know they did other work but
it's it's just or or maybe they're not
where they aren't even where you believe
they are they're actually really unhappy
and just putting on this Brave face
because simple cells right simple cells
simple cells and you know
um simple inspiration cells
so just just just to close off that
point about because I feel like there's
going to be people listening right now
um that identify with feeling powerless
in their everyday lives and their
working lives and relationships they uh
they can spot all the symptoms you
described of that sort of like
contracted posture the self-affirmation
piece loved it never heard that before
um
what else to get me out of that
situation I'm thinking in terms of
things that I can like either practice
or you know how do I get from there to
there
well it's funny because I I talk a lot
about
how tiny tweaks lead to big changes and
I I called you know there was a whole
sort of nudge movement like how do you
change people's behavior through these
little nudges
and I I talk about self-nudging you I'm
not a I'm not a big believer in New
Year's resolutions because they're two
they're grandiose they require a million
steps you're going to fail somewhere
along the way and then quit I believe in
just doing a little bit better the next
time okay so the next time you go into
uh give a talk for example to anyone if
somebody's afraid of public speaking but
has to to do to lead team meetings for
example
I want you to focus on changing one
thing maybe it's your breathing you
breathe more slowly and deeply maybe you
make sure that you're not wrapping your
hands around your body by holding a
bottle of water or a slide advance or
something something that forces you to
keep your hands away from your body each
time you get a little bit better and
eventually you find that you're there
and my advisor my grad school advisor
Susan Fisk who I just adore
taught me that because I almost quit
grad school
the night before my first year talk
which is where you present the first
year of research you've done just to the
people in your department I was so
scared
that I called her and I said I'm I can't
do this I'm going to quit and she said
you're not quitting
she said you're going to do it and even
if it doesn't go perfectly which it
won't
you will have done it and learned
something and gotten a little better and
each time it's going to get better she
said and I want you to give every talk
you're asked to give take every
opportunity that you're that that's
given to you to improve and eventually
you won't notice the moment when you
know suddenly you've gotten there you'll
just look back and go oh my gosh I'm
here how did I get here through these
tiny nudges so go easy on yourself focus
on only one change in that next
challenge focus on the situations that
you approached with Dread that you
execute with anxiety and distraction and
that you tend to leave with a sense of
regret
each those challenges vary for different
across people you know for some people
it's public speaking for some people
it's giving negative feedback for some
people it's
um having a difficult discussion with a
family member whatever that challenge is
for you
I want you to do change one little thing
each time you go into it
so that you can in the end approach it
with confidence execute with this calm
confidence and leave it with a sense of
satisfaction that you showed up that you
did what you could do a lot of things
that you can't control
but it's much easier to accept a
negative outcome if you controlled the
things you could right if you know how
often do people walk away from those
situations and go I feel like they
didn't see who I am
you want to walk away and say they saw
who I am and now they get to make the
decision and I can't control whether
they you know how how they evaluate me
Beyond this I did I did my best that's
where you want to get to I always think
of um confidence and self-esteem and now
powerlessness or powerfulness the
feeling of it as an upward or a downward
spiral that we're all kind of on like a
self-reinforcing upward or downward
spiral if that kind of I think it is so
if I just to kind of I think that
say something I'm confident at public
speaking on stage for example I will
show up better which means I'm likely to
get a better reaction I'm likely to feel
better after which means next time I
show up better which means and the
Spiral goes up or conversely it can go
the opposite way downwards and the
people that are on that downward so
there's many areas of my life that I
think come on and up would spiral I'm
like I'm building positive evidence it's
all going well and everyone's black and
then there's some areas of my life that
I might be on a downward spiral um I
know I've got some good friends that I
think are so far down that downward
spiral that even telling them
what your lovely professor she was a my
advice my yeah she was a professor my my
graduate school advisor they're so far
down the bottom of that spiral that they
would have quit yeah a lot of people are
living in a state of survival which I
actually think of like self-preservation
or defense yes they're like just remove
all chance of threat from my life
and in that situation you never do get
to go upwards on that spiral no oh God I
just so many people are at the bottom of
that spiral in their lives I know and I
don't know what to do about it I I it's
you know it's my responsibility but I
just think no responsibility no it's not
but but also I I do think that more
people are in that state now than they
than that compared to three and a half
years ago how come I do I think the
pandemic really took a toll on people's
mental sort of
um stability their their sense of self
and I think we're going to be grappling
with that for quite a while I mean
people who we why did it why did it have
that impact because we are wired to deal
with a crisis that lasts
like a couple months not one that lasts
three years and not one that is yanking
us around back and forth like oh we're
emerging oh Delta we're emerging Omicron
you know like it was just this
constant back and forth and we so we
were living in this liminal state where
we had one foot on the safe side and one
foot on the threatened side we get
through crises using what's called surge
capacity which is you know it's called a
network of physical and and
Psychological Resources that help us
survive but that runs out pretty quickly
and a lot of people say for the first
two months of the pandemic they felt
very productive that was Surge capacity
and it's studied in the context often of
um of of combat soldiers so like the
first battle it's it's the emergency
phase and they they are focused the goal
is clear it's shared teams operate at
their best good leaders operated their
best then they go into this regression
in between where they don't know what's
going to happen next they lose a sense
of purpose they become disconnected from
each other they withdraw then they're
back in battle in that's how this is
gone it's going to take a little while
to put the pieces back together again
but I think I think that we we have to
have some Grace
and I mean toward each other with each
other with ourselves
I don't think it's going to be fixed by
if we're too hard ourselves I think we
do have to let ourselves off the hook a
bit and go oh we've never lived through
something like this earlier and we were
talking about the things that make you
feel powerless in your body language and
the way you conduct yourselves and all
these things the things that make
someone look and feel powerful
um
I imagine it's the opposite in many
respects but specifically if I if I want
to and I want to because I really want
to leave people with actionable things
that they can they can do in their lives
if I want to
um
become a better speaker present myself
better show up better for my employees
um or be a better podcast host and I
think about this people I've never said
this before people I spend so long
thinking about how I'm sitting when I'm
speaking to someone really yeah because
because when I'm not thinking I might
like fall into a certain posture I was
I've even been thinking about these
bloody arms on this chair
sometimes I'm like this and this is my
favorite situation to be in so like my
body's open right and then sometimes I
go like this and sometimes I crunch over
into a ball and stuff yeah and when I'm
having these kind of conversations with
people I think that the best approach to
take is to be open with my body language
yes and then hopefully they'll open up
with me yeah you know that's exactly
right so I think
to really simplify it and again as I
said I don't love like choreographing
but the body language that is I think
the the most uh effective is to be open
to be kind of leaning forward you know
Palms up not wrapping yourself up not
the whole time yeah but what what you
want to be showing is I'm comfortable
and relaxed with you I'm interested in
you yeah and so I think that's that's
the posture that you want to take on and
people will mirror that one thing that
people in general people mirror each
other's body language right that's a way
that we sync up but there's one
exception and that's when there's a
power differential so if a powerful
person is interacting with somebody
that's clearly less powerful the
powerful person tends to become more
dominant in their body language and the
powerless person becomes more powerless
and we call that complementarity so I
think it's very important for people in
leadership positions to be aware that
when one of their you know employees
comes to talk to them they're probably a
little nervous and
to be very mindful of their body
language because you don't you don't
want them to shut down you want them to
feel comfortable and tell you what's
going on share their interests or their
problem or their challenge
penguin arms I never had that expression
until chapter nine of your book what's
penguin arms it's when people people
don't know what to do with their head a
lot of people don't know what to do with
their hands when they're speaking and so
they kind of like pin
they pin their wrist to their like
around their hips and their hands kind
of stick out
oh okay you're gonna look like a penguin
yeah it's it's really common for people
who are afraid of public speaking you'll
like they're like kind of moving their
hands but they're afraid to move their
arms away from their body besides
penguin arms let me just get I've got
this correctly is this penguin arms you
mean this yeah but you're talking I'm
like
yeah exactly that's penguin arms okay
and it's again because I'm I'm
I mean one of the this correlation
between how much space you take up and
how powerful you feel right again that's
me trying to take up less as little as
space as possible right and I'm
signaling so I'm speaking to you by
doing that even though regardless of
what my mouth is saying and if I'm like
this
yes I'm saying you're sending a
completely different message exactly and
people are remember the audience like
even a whole audience is responding to
you so if there's this whole
self-reinforce there's reinforcement
between you and the audience and within
the self so if you're acting that way
they might be mirroring you or feeling
kind of uncomfortable because you're
feeling anxious but you can make the
audience feel uncomfortable because
you're so uncomfortable for sure and
then and then you read that and you feel
more uncomfortable so it becomes you
know kind of re reinforced through the
interaction
this is this
interesting thing that happens to me
once in a while where I'll be speaking
to someone and it's usually someone I'm
gonna be honest right so it's usually
someone where
there's a lot of things about them but I
haven't told them
and I find it hard to hold eye contact
with them
and I notice this about myself to
certain people in my life where there's
like unaddressed things that haven't
fully spoken about and when I speak to
them I tend to not look at them and I
tend to just like be looking away or
looking down and I I will occasionally
glance over and look at them but this
broader point about eye contact and you
mentioned it briefly earlier on
what significance does it have in our
Communications and because I I find it
the hardest thing I can kind of I think
I can feign the body language I wish I
could make that I I can't give you a
simple answer and I that because there
are so many cultural differences oh
really in in when you make eye contact
so kids learn such different rules about
making eye contact
UM you know a lot of kids are taught you
don't make eye contact with an authority
figure right so and then they're seen as
lying because they're not making eye
contact uh you know um but but but
seeing it as rude to make eye contact it
means you know in a lot of East Asian
cultures eye contact you you don't hold
eye contact for as long it's seen this
very aggressive
um
in the U.S you can hold eye contact for
quite a while before people feel
uncomfortable
but it's you know it so yeah it's I
think it's one of the more culturally
constrained Expressions what am I in
primates I mean if I've watched all
these primate documentaries and it's
often the case that when primates kind
of look at each other for too long it
can it's often aggressive aggressive
yeah I I don't I and again I I would
have to defer to something like Bob
sapolski on that one but I think um I I
think that in non-human primates it you
know great apes it is it is a sign of
aggression
it is like bring it on yeah
and in certain contexts
yeah again it's so contextual and
cultural because as we were saying
before we start recording in the US if
someone stares at me in a lift I would
imagine that they're about to say hello
whereas in I don't know a rough part of
the UK
if someone stares at me I would check
where my wallet and my keys are and
assume that we had there's going to be a
problem yeah so yeah yeah I mean and
there are differences cultural
differences within the U.S too is it
possible to learn how to read people
better in terms of their body language
is that also something you can play oh
for sure I just think there's some
really great books like I I love Joe
Navarro's work he's a former FBI agent
he has a lot of images he really he's
not a researcher but grounds in the
research and has a lot of personal
experience the book that I love is is
what everybody is saying
um by Joe Navarro so I would recommend
that as a great way to start I think
there are some that are sort of like
more like
how to pick up women yeah yeah and I
don't like those this is just really
understanding people and what's
happening in an interaction I'm gonna
confess that when I was 18 I read one
such book about pickup artistry
and um it actually it actually was very
useful
had this conversation with my husband
it's so funny and
it's like the one thing he was like I
did read that oh yeah I mean yeah so it
was it was useful because I love
psychology I studied psychology at in in
school as well and um I chose that for
one of my a levels and it was useful
from that perspective I mean it's
probably why I do this now I was so
compelled to understand why humans do
what they do then I read this book which
I didn't intend to buy I'm gonna be
honest okay I've told the truth the
whole time so believe me when I say I
didn't intend to buy this book about
pickup Artistry my older brother ordered
it for home in the southwest of the UK
when he'd gone he put the wrong address
in when he was at University so it came
home and he goes I'll just keep it so I
open it and I opened up my bedroom floor
and I did not move until I'd finished
the entire book the first book where
from the first page till the last I
didn't move and it fascinated me because
it was just it was like someone turned
the lights on to this whole other
language that I'd been communicating my
whole life without knowing someone one
of the really things I always talk about
with my friends is this idea of pecking
which is this kind of invasion of
personal space that happens when you're
when you meet someone you're attracted
to yeah the music style out you lean
into their personal space
and how that signals like low value then
they lean out
um but all those things I found oh geez
I am the worst if I'm in a restaurant
and I see it a first date yeah
it is it can be so I want to slip a
napkin to the woman sometimes and like
like the guy will get up to go to the
bathroom and she is like you I'm I feel
like slipping a napkin and saying run
you know like it's just you can it's so
clear so quickly how it's going what are
the signs they are talking too much and
not asking questions oh my god um I mean
that that's I would say the most common
and and believing that they're very very
interesting
they are yeah so interesting
um and and it is leaning in and taking
into too much taking up too much space
and you can see the and I'm sorry I'm
talking about straight couples and so
because I I don't know enough about
um
other dyads but I mean in this in the
context of body language but
you see the woman clearly tensing up
she's making herself smaller to get away
she may not be literally leaning away
she's closing herself up and she women
were people in that situation when they
want to get away they often do these lip
presses like this
um and so you start to see the lip
presses
and then making themselves smaller and
you know and and leaning right in fact
um we were watching a TV show last night
that might be called The Bachelorette
this happened and the the guy was
holding her The Bachelorette like
hugging her
and like she wasn't
forcefully lean away but I was like oh
it's too close she really does not like
that but she was being very polite it
was like painful to watch so in real
life well I've had to bite my tongue at
times what's the opposite of that then
when you look over in a restaurant
because me and my girlfriend do this I
think everybody does this well not
everybody clearly but just weirdos like
us that are into psychology who look
over another couple and go they're
getting on really really great they're
into each other this is not because me
and my girlfriend we go to restaurants
we always think like is this a first
date how long have they been together
are they married are they into each
other obviously the really bad examples
is when they're both leaning out on
their phones yes and I'm like oh my God
yeah so not picking up their phones
leaning in toward each other yeah um
yeah good eye contact about balance and
in conversation expressions of genuine
curiosity where you can kind of see
their face light up when they hear the
person the other person say something
like they're really intrigued the other
one always one of them gets up to go to
the bathroom yeah and to me the the tell
is what does the other person do when
that person this makes me look like I'm
not watching you all on your dates I
swear you learn so am I
we both are and that's fine
but
when the other person goes to the
bathroom if the ones that at the table
is like you can tell their smile like
they can't stop smiling
um and maybe they're texting somebody
and they're but their cheeks like almost
you can tell her cheeks almost hurt from
smiling they're it's like they're
letting the they're so excited they
don't want to act over the top with the
person but when the person steps away
they allow themselves to feel that joy
that to me is the talent that's exciting
you're like oh that's so nice Something
Beautiful is happening and the little
grooming signals as well like when you
know they you know they might yeah that
they smell well and things like right
I guess the I guess the last piece is
about
being able to fake body language
can people do that can we fake it I mean
you can try is it effective I usually
not it because you get those
asynchranies right so it's too much
think think about all of the non-verbal
challenge channels you've got vocal cue
they call it the paralinguistic cues
like tone of voice range of voice how
quickly or slowly you speak you've got
your your fingers your hands your arms
there's too much
to do to fake it for you know uh
and and to make it consistent with what
you're saying probably you know the
greatest actors can
pretty well
but I mean to me it's just it's it's so
likely to fail that it's not even worth
trying and I I don't think it's honest I
super interesting for me because between
the age of I'm gonna say 14 and
let's go for 21. I was in my view I
think I was kind of rejected by every
um woman that I pursued
and I think I was inherently low value
and didn't realize it so when I read
these books about pickup Artistry and
all this stuff I read all this work I
tried to do what the book said and it
was unsuccessful like fundamentally
unsuccessful my life changed when I
actually changed like when my actual
opinion of myself changed and I was
saying this to my friend the other day
who's who's going through a bit of a
process where
um they're struggling with that same
thing I said you know what I wasn't able
to lie to myself I tried waiting longer
to text back I tried this I tried all of
these things and my conclusion from that
chapter of my life is there's a thousand
little things that ways we communicate
it's exactly what you just said I said
to my friend the other day there's a
thousand ways we can communicate and you
might think you can control three or
four of them but as humans that have
evolved over those 200 000 years were so
good at knowing what someone really
thinks and feels
and so I guess my question here is like
I came to the conclusion and then this
was when I was giving my friends some
advice through the days you can't fake
it you have to actually go and change
yourself story like you can know the
tips and tricks but that wasn't enough
for me
to actually get the you know
and it was honestly the thing that
changed in my life was when my opinion
of myself changed right and it's and I
it sounds so weird to say but I'm sure
nobody's listening
um the profunda the profundity of the
change I just can't I can't describe it
not not even in the relationship being
able to attract people but just in every
context like I don't know what changed I
don't know what I did all I know is that
something deep within me my story of who
I am changed and that means that when I
show up in places I stand differently
yeah your non-verbal sort of experts
talk about Inside Out change yeah right
as opposed to outside in yeah
um because people have clicked this
video right now click this podcast
because they went outside in chain I
know they do I know and it's like I
always feel like look I'm a body
language person but that doesn't mean
I'm going to give you a hat full of
tricks
it just doesn't because it's not going
to work that wouldn't be right and it's
funny too because the quote that I'm
best known for is fake it till you
become it and
what I mean by that it is fake it till
you make it to me has always meant
pretend that you know things you don't
know for pretend that you are a person
that you're not until you get the job
but what do you do then you keep faking
it
so fake it till you make it is fooling
other people
fake it till you become it is expand
allow yourself to feel powerful enough
to really understand who you are to know
what your story is to be to be more
focused on the impression you're making
on yourself than on others
um to grow to be less afraid of these
challenges
and eventually
you know maybe you know standing in
those big positions
alone feels a little awkward at first
and you're faking it but eventually you
become that person and you know that's
what happened with my student who I talk
about in the Ted Talk who had not
participated at all the whole semester
and I I was gonna have to fail her and I
said you have to participate
and she finally raised her hand on the
last class I said I'll call on you and
first of all her comment was amazing and
people's head spun like they hadn't
noticed her but she continued to use
these ideas and she came back to me
later like six months or a year later
and she said she said to me I want you
to know I'm so happy now because she had
come into my office and said I feel like
an imposter I don't belong here I'm from
this small town I was like so am I if I
belong here you do
she came back to me after graduating and
finding and actually getting into
education and not business and she said
those things that we talked about I did
and I realized I wasn't faking it till I
made it I was faking it till I became it
and now I'm the person that I wanted to
be
that makes so much sense
so expand yourself
so that you can get the evidence you
need to become the thing that you
exactly our parents and grandparents
told us to sit up straight as a show of
respect to others and kids hate that
it's
kids you know to teach kids to sit up
straight as a show of respect to
themselves
and that allows you to be more open to
to be less defensive to allow the truth
of who you are in
it's hard to confront ourselves
it takes courage
so by adopting those powerful postures
by feeling personally powerful you are
generating the courage to confront
yourself to know yourself to introduce
yourself to yourself
ladies and gentlemen today is a very big
day for me because the Diary of a CEO
book is finally out it's been published
today the 33 laws of business and life
I've spent many years writing this book
but I've spent even longer about a
decade and a half compiling the
information that exists in this book if
you are somebody that has any intent at
some point in your life of building
something whether it's building a great
team at work whether it's a football
team a netball team a business an
organization a charity anything at all
that you want to build that's going to
require you to understand people
understand how to tell great stories and
maybe most importantly of all understand
yourself then I believe this book is a
must read and you know what I've written
a book before
this is my second book but this is the
one this is the book that will give you
the most value there's a link right now
in the description below and for 30
people that order the book
and post it on their social media and
tag me you'll be getting a very special
Gold version of the book
please read it then please message me on
every social media platform and let me
know what you think
thank you a quick word on huel as you
know they're a sponsor of this podcast
and I'm an investor in the company one
of the things I've never really
explained is how I came to have a
relationship with huel one day in the
office many years ago a guy walked past
called Michael and he was wearing a
heeled t-shirt and I was really
compelled by the logo I just thought
from a design aesthetic point of view it
was really interesting and I asked him
what that word meant and why he was
wearing that T-shirt and he said it's
this brand called heal and they make
food that is nutritionally complete and
very very convenient and has the planet
in mind and he the next day dropped off
a little bottle of fuel on my desk and
from that day onwards I completely got
it because I'm someone that cares
tremendously about having a
nutritionally complete diet but
sometimes because of the way my life is
that falls by the wayside so if there
was a really convenient reliable
trustworthy way for me to be
nutritionally complete in an affordable
way I was all ears especially if it's a
way that is conscious of the planet give
it a chance give it a shot let me know
what you think
as I've read through your story I came
across this moment where there was some
academic bullying in your life and this
appeared to me to be the a real pivotal
um hurtful chapter of your life it's now
the basis for
some of the work that you're doing and
some of the things you're writing about
what what do I need to know about what
happened there to understand the lessons
that you've taken from that
um chapter
I I would rather endure any physical
pain than go through that and I have
interviewed I mean it went on for years
I became
just fair game it was because the
bullies had been so successfully
diminished demeaned stigmatized me
that anyone else who felt the need to
act out could act out against me it was
okay so
the mountain of you know social media
um uh evidence of of this bullying is
overwhelming and I can't even look
through it I have to have someone else
sort through that I am not talking about
Anonymous trolls this was other
academics
this was about me it was personal they
they they're they were not
hiding behind anonymity every person
I've interviewed for this book has been
been bullied every adult has said
it's the worst thing that ever happened
to me
and
I felt like I was dying or I wanted to
die
for a long time because it is social
death it is social death and without
community
we we are we are in a bad place I mean
we we do need each other
the facts of my life were stolen from me
my story was Rewritten so much so that I
could not do an interview without having
to correct
all kinds of disinformation about me
right so the whole you know telling the
way you tell your story to yourself
matters peace wow that was hard I had to
keep doing that to survive it because
other people were telling a story that
was a lie and that was deeply hurting me
I mean emotionally professionally
um hurting my family I mean it was
terrible I was
I I almost died I almost decided to die
and
um
and that's very common for people who
are bullied
and
I'm not through it it's those I mean I'm
I'm through the worst of it but it still
it still comes up and and and there are
there are there's disinformation in news
articles that that these bullies sort of
got out there
that will always circulate I can never I
can't get rid of all of that right it
will pop up every once in a while and
people go but yeah but I heard you did
this and you're like no
that's incorrect
um and so every time that pops up
it's it's just like a dagger again it it
is an absolute theft of your life it is
it is
absolutely
it is absolutely devastating
and in the workplace it's remarkably
common
and
the estimates by people who study
workplace bullying are that
oh more than 90 of people who become
targets of workplace bullying
dis disappear from that job and when I
say disappear I mean they're either
fired because the bully flips it around
and they're seen as the difficult person
or their move to a different department
or they quit because they can't endure
it
or they die of a stress related illness
or they take their own lives
um
suicide rates are very high for for
adults for children and adult bullying
targets
if I was in your household around that
time what would I have seen and I asked
that question because
people never get to see that right they
get to see either silence or they might
get to see a statement but
um
you know what I'm thinking right now is
that my boys are going to hear this and
they're gonna be laughing and they're
gonna be they're gonna be saying that
I'm exaggerating you know like but who
cares why if they say that but I it's
still like I'm so afraid of them still
um
I was you know Raising a Son who is just
a lovely remarkable person I'm like
I can't believe that he
grew up to be such a wonderful person
because for so much of his teenage life
I was going through this and it was
so hard to be present but I had to be
like I need
there was this constant conflict that I
had how much do I tell him about
um
how much do I Shield him from it can I
Shield him from it because
you know my God my husband who
was just like wanted so desperately to
fix it for me and he he's a scientist
and he understood very well the
statistical arguments as better than
than most people in my field do and he
would engage with these bullies and that
would escalate he was he was for sure
traumatized by it
um
I was just curled up in a ball and then
amazingly I was still able to go out and
speak and for that hour
I was safe
and and then I would I would hide again
and
I was just so afraid
uh
I just felt like I was dying I would
just I think almost every day I said I
feel like I'm dying
uh it was it was I
it just the darkest of dark
um
they
like I'm grieving
still the loss
of
again the facts of my life
and a future that I thought I was going
to have even though
I and this is that whole Silver Lining
thing I'm actually happier now
in the life that I'm in
I had to leave my job I wasn't forced
out at all and in fact I want to be
clear because this isn't the bullies
love to say that I was denied tenure I
was not denied tenure I chose to leave
my Dean was incredibly supportive of me
I could not live in that toxic house
anymore it was filled with fumes it was
I I I would have died if I had stayed so
in Academia period you left your job yes
my my full-time you know tenure track
position and that's after I had been
promoted twice like I had worked so hard
to get there
I had an excellent record of research
um
I wanted to stay there I I wanted to
continue to do work around sexism and
racism I
I thought maybe I would eventually get
into the administration I wanted to like
that was the life that I thought I
hadn't and
they made it impossible for me to stay
yes it was my choice and no it wasn't my
choice
um they sold my future
now I have a different one maybe that's
maybe that's better but it doesn't take
away the pain of that loss it's sort of
like
it's like
losing a spouse a spouse dying Young
and then you get remarried a few years
later and you're happy in your new
marriage and maybe you're even happier
but you'll never stop grieving
the loss of that first person right it's
that's how this feels
um
and that's why it's taking me like four
years to write this book
because it's a lot it's a it's a lot to
tell my own story I'm scared and it's a
lot to
hold other people's stories because I
know how they feel I know how hard it is
I mean
I've interviewed people whose adult
children have taken their own lives
because they were so badly bullied in
the workplace
it was it was just torture
my
collaborators were tortured
and
lost so much
fighting this
disinformation and just this this
meanness
my son in the last six months has had
two friends who were taking psychology
courses
learn this disinformation about me in
their psychology courses because again
it just sort of lives on and so now he's
coming going
I don't understand
can I ask you everyone's question here
because I
did lots of research on you didn't
really come across any of that
it's amazing I didn't so I don't know
the details of it um what I what I've
have inferred from what you're saying is
that people try to discredit you yes and
your intentions yes is that accurate yes
okay so they try to discredit you me my
intentions my my actions
um
and to prevent me from
doing more work doing more work right
makes sense yes
what do you think their motivations were
I can tell you that
a small percentage of people I believe
are what I call primary bullies like
they are the ones who get the ball
rolling
if they're alone and I you know we
chatted about this earlier but if
they're alone they're just yeah
but when they recruit people then they
become bullies
and
they tend to be repeat offenders
what they want is status and recognition
they feel that they have not gotten as
much as they deserve
and they resent people who they perceive
as getting more than they deserved
and so when they perceive that
they'll start to go after that person in
little ways and I call that the bully
test the bullies testing to see if
people will
allow that to happen and if people don't
push back and this is where bystanders
could get involved right away and say
that's not okay
I so wish more people had done that in
my case
then they escalate very quickly and they
are basically they are gaining status by
taking away your status
it's I don't think it's about
power as much as it is about status
there are people who are very powerful
but still feel like they're not getting
the recognition and status that they
deserve and their bullies it is
motivated I believe in general again I
don't know what motivated my bullies by
a need for status
and
one of the commonalities across bullies
is that they tend to have a scarcity
mindset
they see the world as everything is zero
sum everything's affixed buy and that
means if if somebody else is getting
status or success it's somehow taking
away from their from them
you know Einstein once said the most
important question that you'll answer
for yourself
is sort of is the universe fundamentally
hostile or friendly
because the way you answer that will
affect the way you do your work
and how you interact with people and
what what you aspire to
these are people who would say the world
is fundamentally hostile
the bullies are yes
and that's the commonality across
bullies I think there are some myths
about bullies like the idea that bullied
people become bullies
some do
and most don't in fact a lot of the
people who I call bravehearts who stand
up against bullies were bullied
so it's it's not that bullied people
become bullies it's not that you know
you know it's not that they're they have
such low self-esteem and they can't
sleep at night they actually they can
sleep at night they're okay with what
they're doing they think they're right
um yeah
but we there are way there's so many
ways and I I this is maybe another
conversation for next year
there's so many opportunities for
bystanders to get involved early so that
it doesn't escalate to this full-blown
bullying campaign because once you're
there the person is is is is is is
socially killed
do you think this is an inevitable
byproduct of being successful
because you talk those primary bullies
they see status as the the game so you
become really successful in your
industry you get a TED Talk which
becomes one of the most watched ever you
know your podcast becomes big those
Primary people are going to say
he or she is getting too much credit
what can I do to tear them down give me
a little bit of credit take back some of
that zero some status
um so you know so is it a inevitable
what do they call it um occupational
hazardous yeah so I don't think I think
it's common
for you for successful people to have
haters
that doesn't always turn into bullying
also
the people who tend to be targets
tend to be people who have okay so if
you if you think about the kind of the
workplace or the profession and then
the rest of the world
they have lower status in their
profession than they do with the rest of
the world
and so I was a junior researcher I
wasn't you know supposed to get this
much attention and
I just gave a TED talk like that you
know I
I wasn't going out looking for status
that's what happened it happened to go
viral but the targets tend to be people
who are below the average on status in
with with the in-group and then cross
what some researchers have called the
line of resentment and then they become
targets or they're viable targets they
don't necessarily become targets but
they're viable targets so people who
have very high status in inside and get
high status outside they're much less
likely to be bullied
interesting so to sort of clarify that
in words that I just make sure I
understand if I am
in a school yeah and I am maybe in the
lower
quartile of popularity I'm not so
popular but then something happens which
means outside of school I become super
famous yes you know I blow up in the
news outside of school and everyone's
talking about me and they love me the
people in school yeah there's going to
be a group of people in school that go
we need to Reign this guy back in
there's going to be a couple of people
and you hear those stories and you've
interviewed a lot of celebrities and you
know when you talk to celebrities like
people who who got famous as kids
a lot of them were bullied and people
are shocked they're like but you but
everyone else loved you yeah yeah but
that's exactly
why they got bullied in their schools
yeah because they weren't supposed to
succeed I I've heard this story many
times on this podcast Amy I
you know like as in this someone doing
well
um a group of people thinking that
they've punched too far above their way
yep and then exactly trying to tear them
back down with disinformation
misinformation whatever it's so common
um
are you optimistic that it can change
honestly really yes I think it's human
well I would like to see it change but I
part of me goes I think this is just
humans yeah but but this is you know
what we if so if we said that about
racism and misogyny and ageism it's just
human nature people would go that's not
okay like a lot of people would object
on that statement and say yes we can do
better but no I absolutely believe that
if people can understand the anatomy of
bullying how it works and what it looks
like in the beginning what are the early
signs what are the little things they
can do to be socially Brave
and collectively turn things around
I think that that that we will see
change in in workplaces first the
psychological
research shows that we can turn this
around
I think you're right actually
thank you no I do think you're right
just because because when you make the
similarity between things like racism
and sexism it's it's really really about
cultural acceptance isn't it whether we
whether we someone performs that
behavior whether we go that's that's
fine whether we clap whether we go you
know we're going to reject you if you do
that again exactly
um and we're all governed by incentives
in this Society aren't we so it's just
about an incentive disincentive yes
interesting
what's the most important thing that we
haven't talked about that maybe we
should have
yeah I mean we've talked a lot about
trust but I guess
so so I guess I just want to summarize
sort of all of that talk about trust
it just that
you know a lot of people in the business
World make the mistake of thinking that
they gotta go in and be the smartest
person in the room
so they've got to show confidence
and they do that at the expense of
demonstrating their trustworthiness
and and if you do not establish earn
trust build trust
you you have no medium through which
your ideas can travel so trust is the
conduit of influence it's not a soft
idea it's a true idea this is just the
way people are if you come in and and
you start talking at them and you
haven't listened to them you don't know
what they're about they don't feel like
you care it doesn't matter if you have
the best idea in the world you're
throwing it against a brick wall you
know you have got to earn an established
trust
in order to influence people
and how do you establish trust not
thinking that you have to take the floor
first so a lot of people feel that
especially in business settings they
like a negotiation they feel like
they've got to drop the anchor they have
to talk first
when in reality
it's
often much more effective to ask
questions and learn about the other
person you're showing first that I
you're interested that you understand
them and you're actually gaining
information right so so that you when
you respond you're not giving up power
at all you're building trust and
learning and and then you when you when
you respond
they trust that your response is based
on
you actually knowing them right so they
feel seen they they've been seen so
that's I think you know there are so
many things but I I that that's one that
I think is is really effective
we have a closing tradition on this
podcast where the Alaska leaves a
question for the next guest not knowing
who they're going to leave the question
for
and the question left for you is
if we discovered a cure for sadness
such that we would never need ex need
experience it again
would you support
the development of that cure
I'm on the
oh geez I I feel like I'm gonna get
myself in trouble but
you know I referred to Susan Kane
earlier her book quiet her new book is
called Bittersweet and it is about
allowing ourselves to feel sadness to
grieve that it is in many ways healing I
mean why do we listen to sad songs it we
get some pleasure from it we heal from
it so I I'm gonna have to say I I'm
going for the Bittersweet and not the No
No sadness
imagine a world without sadness I don't
think that would be a nice world I think
sadness is like hot and cold and sad and
happy I don't think you have one without
the other unfortunately I don't think so
either and it's in a signal right it's a
human signal that our bodies send us to
tell us it's information yeah process
loss and things like that yes I
completely agree with you and to feel
empathy and compassion and want to help
others so
thank you so much thank you thank you so
much it was delightful really really
delightful I like so much and um in the
process of reading your work and
watching your videos I learned an
incredible amount and um
you've really helped me I've had so many
little personal epiphanies as we've been
speaking
so many of them and I'm actually really
really excited about your upcoming book
about bullying and bystanders because
there's not really a big conversation
happening but if there was ever a time
for this conversation in the world we
live in in these like
pants or culture mobs and the Twitter
sphere and all of this stuff it's a big
conversation in the UK at this exact
moment for a variety of reasons there's
been a big couple of big moments in the
UK
um it's it's it's it's now is the time
to have a really like professional
nuanced conversation about it yes and to
see if there is a way yes to have a
language so we can actually talk about
it yeah I would love to speak to you
again when that become when that book
comes out wonderful to do but thank you
so much for all of your time today it's
been really really fascinating really
opening conversation and you know what I
I think you're a wonderful human being I
think you're a warm competent which is
what I aspire to be one day thank you I
think you're wonderful too thank you so
much Amy means a lot to me thank you
thank you
[Music]
oh
foreign
[Music]
you got to the end of this podcast
whenever someone gets to the end of this
podcast I feel like I owe them a greater
debt of gratitude because that means you
listen to the whole thing and hopefully
that suggests that you enjoyed it if you
are at the end and you enjoyed this
podcast could you do me a little bit of
a favor and hit that subscribe button
that's one of the clearest indicators we
have that this episode was a good
episode and we look at that on all of
the episodes to see which episodes
generated the most subscribers
thank you so much and I'll see you again
next time